First-Level Spells
Create Water (Alteration)
(Reversible)
Sphere: Elemental (Water)
Range: 30 yds.
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent
Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: Up to 27 cu. ft.
Saving Throw: None
When the priest casts a create water spell, up to 1/2 gallon of water are generated for
every experience level of the caster (for example, a 2nd-level priest creates up to 1
gallon of water, a 3rd-level priest up to 1 1/2 gallons, etc.). The water is clean and
drinkable (it is just like rain water). The created water can be dispelled within a round of
its creation; otherwise, its magic fades, leaving normal water that can be used, spilled,
evaporated, etc. The reverse of the spell, destroy water, obliterates without trace (no
vapor, mist, fog, or steam) a like quantity of water. Water can be created or destroyed in
an area as small as will actually contain the liquid, or in an area as large as 27 cubic feet
(1 cubic yard).
Note that water can neither be created nor destroyed within a creature. For reference
purposes, water weighs about 8 ½ pounds per gallon, and a cubic foot of water weighs
approximately 64 pounds.
The create water spell requires at least a drop of water; the destroy water spell, at least
a pinch of dust.
Merciful Shadows (Abjuration)
(Reversible)
Sphere: Cosmos
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 day/5 levels
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: Person touched
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell creates a magical shade to protect an
individual from the scorching sun. Once cast, the
individual gains the benefits of being in the shade
(half water consumption requirements), even when
travelling or fighting in the full light of the sun. The
individual so protected appears normal, except that
he doesn't sweat as much as expected and his coloration
is a bit gray.
The reverse of this spell, blistering rays, intensifies
the light and heat of the sun on the victim. The individual
must have twice the water per day for the duration
of the spell or suffer the effects of
dehydration. Also, in each round of combat in the
open sun, the individual must make a Constitution
check to keep from passing out. The saving throw,
applicable only to the reverse of the spell, negates its
effects. This spell (and its reverse) has no effect on
an individual who is in the shade.
The material components of this spell are a piece
of a palm leaf (or black fabric for the reverse).
Third-Level Spells
Create Food & Water (Alteration)
Sphere: Elemental (Water)
Range: 10 yds.
Components: V, S
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 1 cu. ft./level
Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, the priest causes food and water to appear. The food thus
created is highly nourishing if rather bland; each cubic foot of the material sustains three
human-sized creatures or one horse-sized creature for a full day. The food decays and
becomes inedible within 24 hours, although it can be restored for another 24 hours by
casting a purify food and water spell upon it. The water created by this spell is the same
as that created by the 1st-level priest spell create water and follows the same restrictions.
For each experience level the priest has attained, 1 cubic foot of food or water is created by
the spell but a maximum of 1/2 gallon of water per caster level (1/2 gallon is 0.07 cu. ft.).
For example, a 2nd-level priest could create 1 gallon of water and 1.86 cubic feet of food.
Air Lens (Alteration)
Sphere: Air
Range: 90 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3 rounds + 1 round/level
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the priest creates a magical
lens high in the air, with which he can direct intensified
rays of the sun against his enemies (the caster
must be in the sunlight for the duration of the spell).
Once cast, the priest can attack with the lens twice
per round, against one or two different targets within
the range of the spell. Attack rolls must be made
for each attack, but the priest suffers no nonproficiency
penalty. Targets under cover receive benefits
for both cover and concealment. Each hit inflicts
2d6 points of damage. Creatures resistant to heat or
fire take only half damage.
The spell can also be used to ignite flammable
materials. When doing so against non-mobile targets,
no attack roll is necessary and any normally
combustible material (cloth, wood, paper, etc.) will
ignite. Personal equipment may also be targeted,
but the priest must make a successful attack roll
with a -4 penalty. If hit, the article of equipment
ignites. Burning clothing will inflict ld6 points of
damage for ld6 rounds or until discarded. Burning
shields become useless. The flames so created are
not magical in nature and can be extinguished normally.
Magical darkness can negate the effects of
this spell. Magical shade reduces damage by half.
The material component for this spell is a small,
round piece of glass.
Fourth-Level Spells
Rejuvenate (Alteration)
Sphere: Elemental, Plant
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: 10' radius/level
Saving Throw: None
This spell grants the ability to support vegetation
to an area of ground. In the case of ground made
barren by defiler magic, rejuvenate dispels the
ground's sterility, making it immediately capable of
supporting vegetation. The spell may be cast on any
ground short of solid rock, including sand, rocky
sand or soil, or dust.
In either case, the spell affects the ground in a
circle extending away from the caster, so he must
stand in the middle of the area he wishes to revitalize.
The radius of the circle is 5 feet per level of the
caster. Once cast, the soil is enriched and moistened,
and a layer of fine grass emerges instantly.
The duration of the spell varies. Once cast, the
moist soil and grass are not magical, and are subject
to all natural forces upon them. They will, however,
survive a week in even the worst of conditions. Rejuvenate
will otherwise last until another defiler spell
destroys the vegetation there.
The material component of the spell is a seed (of
any type) and a drop of water.
Fifth-Level Spells
Conjure Elemental (Conjuration/Summoning)
Reversible
Sphere: Elemental (Various)
Range: 80 yards
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 5 rounds
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
In Dark Sun campaigns, there is no 6th-level conjure
fire elemental spell or 7th-level conjure earth elemental
spell for priests. Instead, this spell allows
the caster to open a special gate to any elemental
plane to which he has major access and summon an
elemental to step through. The Hit Dice of the elemental
are determined randomly.
Roll Hit Dice
01-65 8
66-90 12
91-00 16
The elemental will not turn on the caster, so concentration
need not be maintained. The elemental
summoned remains for a maximum of one turn per
level of the caster, or until it is slain or magically
banished.
Sandstorm (Conjuration/Summoning)
Sphere: Air
Range: 60 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3 rounds/level
Casting Time: 4 rounds
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: 1/2
This spell allows a priest to conjure a very large
version of a dust devil; one that can engage and attack
a number of targets at once. The storm has
AC 0, MV 12, and hit dice equal to the level of the
caster. The sandstorm is a large whirlwind of dust
and sand twelve feet tall that covers a 10-yard by
10-yard square per level of the caster. The storm's
shape can be determined by the caster and changed
on any round after casting, provided no portion of
the storm moves further than its movement rate.
Any creature within the storm is subject to an attack
which will do 2d6 points of damage (save versus
spells for half damage). The storm is only subject to
attacks from magical weapons. The winds of the
storm will put out all normal fires within it. Also,
any items within the storm must make item saving
throws each round or be destroyed—all sandstorm
saves are as if vs. acid with a + 5 bonus. The storm
can hold a gas cloud or a creature in gaseous form
at bay or push it away from the caster. The cloud
obscures vision through it, and creatures are blinded
for ld4 rounds after emerging from it (save versus
spell to avoid blindness). A spellcaster caught
within the sandstorm loses concentration and any
spells he is about to cast are ruined.
The material component for this spell is a small
bottle of air collected on a windy day.
Sixth-Level Spells
Create Tree of Life (Alteration, Enchantment)
Sphere: Cosmos
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: One tree
Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, a wizard can enchant a
living sapling to become a magical tree of life. The
sapling must have already sprouted from the
ground, though the wizard can transplant such a
sapling before casting the spell. It will grow to its full
size in only one week, but has its full powers and
capabilities immediately after the spell is cast. Any
tree less than one year old will suffice; this spell cannot
be cast on an older tree. The properties of a tree
of life are described in Chapter 7: Magic.
The material components for this spell are the
sapling (which grows into the tree of life) and a piece
of copper wire formed in the shape of a tree.